## Humanoids

**Humanoids** are [[creatures]] marked by
bipedalism, two pairs of limbs, a head, remarkably
little sexual dimorphism, high intelligence, and
complex social organization. They are native to
[[Khorvaire]] and [[Sarlona]]. The major humanoid
species of [[Eberron]] include:

* [[Changelings]]
* [[Dwarves]]
* [[Elves]]
* [[Gnomes]]
* [[Goblinoids]]
    * [[Bugbears]]
    * [[Goblins]]
    * [[Hobgoblins]]
* [[Halflings]]
* [[Humans]]
* [[Orcs]]
* [[Shifters]]

### Origins

The wide distribution and variety of humanoid
species has caused no end of speculation among
scholars and sages. Some contend that there must
have been some common humanoid ancestor, while
others speculate that humanoids may have been
created by the ancient [[giants]] of [[Xen'drik]].
Those who believe in the [[Progenitors]] as
literal beings posit that the humanoid form was
important to them, and that this is the reason
why so many humanoid species exist.

### Hybridization

Most species cannot breed with individuals from
other species, but [[humans]] will produce
[[Half-elves|half-elf]] children with [[elves]]
and [[Half-orcs|half-orc]] children with [[orcs]].

Most half-elves today are the children of
half-elves, rather than mixed human and elf
pairings, though all half-elves have such
parentage somewhere in their ancestry. Half-elves
produce half-elf offspring, but they can do so
with others of their own kind, humans, or elves.
The same is true for half-orcs, who can produce
half-orc offspring with other half-orcs, humans,
or orcs.