**Humanoids** are [[creatures]] marked by
bipedalism, two pairs of limbs, a head, remarkably
little sexual dimorphism, high intelligence, and
complex social organization. They are native to
[[Khorvaire]] and [[Sarlona]] at least, while
some varieties may well have developed on
[[Xen'drik]] and even [[Argonnessen]], with other
examples even native to the [[planes]]. The major
humanoid species of [[Eberron]] include:

* [[Changelings]]
* [[Dwarves]]
* [[Elves]]
* [[Gnomes]]
* [[Goblinoids]]
  * [[Bugbears]]
  * [[Goblins]]
  * [[Hobgoblins]]
* [[Halflings]]
* [[Humans]]
* [[Orcs]]
* [[Shifters]]

### Etymology

The [[Khorvairian language|Common]] term
“humanoid” was, of course, coined by [[humans]].
Similar terms exist in other languages, with
their own biocentric biases. The most common term
used by scholars is the
[[Draconic language|Draconic]] term, which
translates literally as “lesser beings.”

### Origins

The wide distribution and variety of humanoid
species has caused no end of speculation among
scholars and sages. Some contend that there must
have been some common humanoid ancestor. One
version of this theory posits that various
humanoid species developed by being subjected to
different [[Planes|planar]] influences. For
example, that the [[goblinoids]] developed under
the influence of [[Shavarath]] and/or [[Daanvi]],
the [[orcs]] under the influence of [[Lamannia]],
[[changelings]] under [[Kythri]], and so on.
Opponents point out that [[shifters]] would appear
to have been shapped by Lamannia at least as much
as orcs, if not moreso, so why did such different
varieties come into being from the same planar
influence? {{if EldeenReaches4}}Of course, the
scholars and sages who pen such treatises are
rarely those to explore the deep wilds of the
[[Towering Wood]], so they don’t know what you
do: that shifters and orcs may, in fact, share
some ancient kinship after all.{{/if}}

Others contend that humanoids may be related to
[[giants]]. They are similar in most respects but
size, after all. Could the ancient giants of
[[Xen'drik]] have created smaller versions of
themselves? Might they have created more
specialized versions for various tasks, thus
creating the many different varieties of
humanoids that we see in Eberron today? If the
giants were powerful enough to travel across the
planes, this could even explain the presence of
humanoid species that we find there. However, if
humanoids were created by the giants, what would
separate them from [[monstrosities]] on the one
hand, or [[constructs]] like [[flesh golems]] on
the other? Spells that act upon monstrosities and
constructs but not humanoids proves that there is
something that divides them.

Those who believe in the [[Progenitors]] as
literal beings posit that the humanoid form was
important to them, and that this is the reason
why so many humanoid species exist. This is a
neatly unfalsifiable theory, and thus taken as
more a statement of faith than rigorous inquiry.

### Hybridization

[[Humans]] are often called “the children of
[[Arawai]]” because of their seemingly
supernatural reproductive abilities. Most species
cannot breed with individuals from other species.
This is the very fact that normally defines a
species. And yet, humans will produce
[[Half-elves|half-elf]] children with [[elves]]
and [[Half-orcs|half-orc]] children with [[orcs]].
The ability is not limitless — half-dwarves are
still more a matter of [[magebreeding]] than
natural occurrence — but it is widespread enough
to have given rise to several new species of
humanoids.

The most numerous are the two already mentioned,
the [[half-elves]] and [[half-orcs]]. Most
half-elves today are the children of half-elves,
rather than mixed human and elf pairings, though
all half-elves have such parentage somewhere in
their ancestry. Half-elves produce half-elf
offspring, but they can do so with others of
their own kind, humans, or elves. The same is
true for half-orcs, who can produce half-orc
offspring with other half-orcs, humans, or orcs.

The [[planetouched]] are much less common, being
the offspring of human pairings with
[[Planes|planar]] [[immortals]] — [[tieflings]]
from humans and [[fiends]], [[aasimar]] from
humans and [[angels]], and [[genasi]] from
humans mating with [[genies]]. These planetouched
species share the same reproductive patterns as
half-elves and half-orcs, so, for example, a
[[water genasi]] can produce a water genasi
offspring with a water genasi, a human, or a
[[marid]]. However, unlike half-elves and
half-orcs, planetouched are known to develop
from human youth or adolescents who spend a great
deal of time in certain [[manifest zones]], or
who are otherwise subjected to unique planar
or [[Magic|magical]] energies.

### The Kalashtar

Most humanoids subjected to [[Magic|magical]] or
[[Planes|planar]] alteration become
[[monstrosities]]. For example, it has been
suggested that the [[medusas]] were humanoids who
were altered by one of the [[Daelkyr]]. The
[[kalashtar]] stand out as a notable exception,
perhaps owing to the consensual bond between the
human lineages and the [[quori]] spirits that
guide them. The kalashtar are blended beings that
remain humanoid despite this planar connection.